First thing today, I arrived realizing that I forgot my keycard. I walked up to the front gate and noticed Laith working on something. I grabbed his attention and let him know that I accidentally forgot my Access Card at home today, I asked if he could open the back door for me. He then told me that he will try to unlock it "remotely" I was confused by this but trusted him and went to wait by the door. I went to open the door and it was unlocked. I went inside to meet Laith and asked how he was able to unlock the door remotely.

He quickly explained that there was a security web application called "keep by Feenics". This software allows administrative users to control and set schedules for the door locks at the Maker Space. Laith put the door "reader" into an "unlock" state. I am hovering and watching Laith work in Feenics. As he is trying to set the door back to its normal "locked" state, he hesitates clicking any buttons because he is worried that the system will break something if he clicks the wrong thing. I suggest that he should click the "Lock Down" button because it's right next to the "Unlock" button and I thought that it would return the door back to its normal state. He says "don't click the lock down button" but doesn't explains why and ignores me when I ask for clarification. Laith then calls Garth to confirm which button should be pressed in the system to return the door "reader" back to normal.

As he is on the phone with Garth, I quickly click the "Lock Down" button out of sheer curiosity not understanding the severity of the situation. Laith then puts Garth on speakerphone and proceeds to lecture me on the buggy nature of the Feenics system and how delicate the security infrastructure is at the Maker Space. As well as it can cost the Maker Space money to call Feenics support in order to solve problems with the system. Now understanding the severity of the situation, Laith and I work to try and return the door back to its normal state. However, the door is now in "Lock Down" mode and no keycards will unlock the door from the outside.

We spend 20-30 minutes researching and troubleshooting some access control options in the Feenics menu. We kept the door propped open as there were people arriving to meet for PiClub. 
Eventually, Laith was able to switch the "reader" to "Card-Only" mode by clicking the "reset button" and return all the previous settings for the "Access Schedule". Then we tested his access card at the back door and it worked like normal. Then we tested Bob's access card and it did not work. So we checked the software again and found out that Bob's card expired 5 days ago. Then we tested Jenny's access card and it also worked. Everything appears to be working as normal now, confirmed by limited testing.

